---
title: "A hybrid topological quantum state in an elemental solid"
collection: talks
type: "Nature"
permalink: /talks/2024-04-10
venue: "Nature volume 628, pages527–533 (2024)"
date: 2024-04-10
location: "Princeton University"
---
### A surprising discovery in an elemental solid!

Topology and interactions are foundational concepts in the modern understanding of quantum matter. Their nexus yields three significant research directions: competition between distinct interactions, as in the multiple intertwined
phases, interplay between interactions and topology that drives the phenomena in twisted layered materials and
topological magnets, and the coalescence of multiple topological orders to generate distinct novel phases. The first
two examples have grown into major areas of research, while the last example remains mostly untouched, mainly
because of the lack of a material platform for experimental studies. Here, using tunneling microscopy, photoemission
spectroscopy, and theoretical analysis, we unveil a “hybrid” and yet novel topological phase of matter in the simple
elemental solid arsenic. Through a unique bulk-surface-edge correspondence, we uncover that arsenic features a
conjoined strong and higher-order topology, stabilizing a hybrid topological phase. While momentumspace spectroscopy measurements show signs of topological surface states, real-space microscopy measurements
unravel a unique geometry of topology-induced step edge conduction channels revealed on various forms of natural
nanostructures on the surface. Using theoretical models, we show that the existence of gapless step edge states in
arsenic relies on the simultaneous presence of both a nontrivial strong Z2 invariant and a nontrivial higher-order
topological invariant, providing experimental evidence for hybrid topology and its realization in a single crystal. Our
discovery highlights pathways to explore the interplay of different kinds of band topology and harness the associated
topological conduction channels in future engineered quantum or nano-devices.

The published paper and related news report can be found [here](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-024-07203-8) and [here](https://thequantuminsider.com/2024/04/11/arsenic-and-new-quantum-devices-princeton-physicists-say-hybrid-topological-discovery-could-lead-to-new-quantum-electronics/)